
*** Files ***

README - Overview of the project, and current status
IDEAS - Journal of the thought process behind the project
TODO - Tree of tasks performed, and to be performed
src/org/distroverse/viewer/Viewer.java - Client top level
src/org/distroverse/dvtp/* - DVTP spec (in progress)


*** Overview ***

Distroverse is an implementation of a protocol, DVTP(*), that creates a
web-like framework of links and URLs for virtual reality without any
dependence on a central host or service other than DNS.  Though the
protocol aims to facilitate that particular application, it is general
enough to be used to implement any network-based application through the
same client.

The design, in brief, involves a client that downloads JVM bytecode from
a server, and runs that bytecode in a sandbox that only permits the
bytecode to exchange a limited set of message objects with the client
and to communicate with that server, and with other servers that permit
that specific bytecode to connect to them(**).

The rationale for this design was a desire to create fractal virtual
worlds, allowing complex worlds to be streamed efficiently across the
network, without hardcoding a limited set of world-generating algorithms
into the client application.

Most of the code is distributed under the GPL, except for the classes
that define the protocol and code used by those classes, which are
distributed under the LGPL.

There are two additional protocols: DRTP, which is a trivial file
transfer protocol, and DVOP, not yet designed, which will facilitate
movement of objects between worlds.  (DVOP might turn out to be
unnecessary.)


*** Current status ***

DV is near a version 0.01 release, which will mainly serve as a rough
demonstration of the concept.  The goal is to get to a fully-functional
version 1.0 browser as quickly as possible, and then focus on servers.
The browser is meant to be as simple and as easy-to-implement as
possible.  Much of the user interface is to be generated in the
downloaded bytecode, much like with a web application.  One goal of the
project is to publish a selection of standard 




(*) DVTP might stand for Distributed Virtual Telepresence Protocol,
Distributed Virtual-Reality Transport Protocol, or Distroverse Transfer
Protocol.  Or just DVT Protocol -- a protocol for inducing deep-vein
thrombosis in nerds.

(**) This restriction is intended to prevent the system from becoming a
means for distributing spam zombies.
